packages/server/README.md, before:

# @basemaps/server

WMTS/XYZ Tile server command line interface.

This wraps the @basemaps/lambda-tiler into a standalone express http server.

## Usage

```
basemaps-server --config path/to/config
```

Usage with basemaps config, you will need access to basemaps' imagery cache 

please contact basemaps@linz.govt.nz if you need access.
```
git clone github.com/linz/basemaps-config

basemaps-server --config basemaps-config/config
```


### Direct TIFF access

If you have a folder of tiffs the basemaps-server can index the folder and create tiles from


For example given a structure where there are two folders full of tiffs

```
/images/00_gebco_2021_305-75m/01G0DBCAEQAAPD0D2F2VZS40XM/*.tiff
/images/10_geographx_nz_texture_shade_2012_8-0m_01FHRPYJ5FV1XAARZAC4T4K6MC/*.tiff
```

running `basemaps-server --config /images --no-config` will create two tile sets one for each folder `gebco_2021...` and `geographx_nz_t...` and then also create a combined layer in the order the tiffs are found.


## Developing

When running the `@basemaps/server` in development mode, ensure `@basemaps/landing` page has been bundled

```bash
yarn
yarn build

npx lerna run bundle --stream # Bundle everything
```

This will package all the static assets into `landing/dist` and will be served from `http://localhost:5000`

Commit message:

feat(server): provide a better error when loading configuration bundles

packages/server/README.md, after:

# @basemaps/server

WMTS/XYZ Tile server command line interface.

This wraps the @basemaps/lambda-tiler into a standalone express http server.

## Usage
Basemaps server exepects a folder tree full of configuration, with multiple tilesets and styles configuration files.

```bash
basemaps-server --config path/to/config/
```

Basemaps server can also be configured with a single configuration bundle file, a configuration bundle is all the configuration packaged into a single file. 

```bash
basemaps-server --config-bundle path/to/config
```


### Usage with LINZ imagery
Usage with basemaps config, you will need access to basemaps' imagery cache 

please contact basemaps@linz.govt.nz if you need access.
```
git clone github.com/linz/basemaps-config

basemaps-server --config basemaps-config/config
```




### Direct TIFF access

If you have a folder of tiffs the basemaps-server can index the folder and create tiles from


For example given a structure where there are two folders full of tiffs

```
/images/00_gebco_2021_305-75m/01G0DBCAEQAAPD0D2F2VZS40XM/*.tiff
/images/10_geographx_nz_texture_shade_2012_8-0m_01FHRPYJ5FV1XAARZAC4T4K6MC/*.tiff
```

running `basemaps-server --config /images --no-config` will create two tile sets one for each folder `gebco_2021...` and `geographx_nz_t...` and then also create a combined layer in the order the tiffs are found.


## Developing

When running the `@basemaps/server` in development mode, ensure `@basemaps/landing` page has been bundled

```bash
yarn
yarn build

npx lerna run bundle --stream # Bundle everything
```

This will package all the static assets into `landing/dist` and will be served from `http://localhost:5000`
